# Predicting-length-of-stay-in-hospitals
1.	Summary of problem statement, data and findings 
Every good abstract describes succinctly what was intended at the outset, and summarizes findings and implications.
Length of stay (LOS) is a critical indicator for hospital management and has direct consequences on hospital costs and patient satisfaction. It significantly indicates the hospital service quality, resource utilization and inpatient hospitalization costs. The hospitals face limitations such as limited wards for patients, test labs, insufficient manpower etc. These limitations lead to extended length of stay of hospitalized patients which increases the healthcare costs. Depending on the medical specialty, physicians can predict LOS although traditional approaches which tend to underestimate LOS in some cases.
Recent Covid-19 Pandemic has raised alarms over one of the most overlooked regions to focus i.e., Healthcare Management. Hospitals faced the situation where they turned away the patients because all their beds were occupied, and the corresponding services required by patients for their healthcare is thus postponed. An insufficient financial support or a poor resource management is often the cause of this situation.  On the other hand, an over-provision of hospital beds or an unrealistic health service time is a waste of the already limited resources. 
Accordingly, there is need for a complex involvement bringing together advanced analytical methods and machine learning techniques to help make better decisions regarding the allocation and use of hospital beds in order to improve patient care and save money.

The model which we will be building would help Hospitals and other healthcare facilities to predict the LOS in hospitals which in turn benefits the hospitals with increased efficiency reduced material cost and patients’ satisfaction. This would also replace the manual consultation of Doctors and Physicians for predicting LOS.
